{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 About Akshay Akshay Jain is a data scientist and analytics engineer with expertise in Power BI, SQL (PySQL, MSSQL, T-SQL, Oracle SQL), and Python (Microsoft Fabric pipelines, automation). He is skilled in AI tools like ChatGPT and Copilot. Akshay excels at problem-solving, project scoping, timeline estimation, and Agile workflow management, including sprint planning and execution. He translates complex data insights into clear, actionable recommendations for non-technical stakeholders, improving decision-making and client service. Akshay works effectively in collaborative and consultative roles.\
\
Contact Information Akshay\'92s email: akshayjain128@gmail.com Akshay\'92s phone: 445-208-1735 Akshay\'92s location: United States Akshay\'92s LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/akshayjain128 Akshay\'92s portfolio: https://idealidler.github.io/my-portfolio\
\
Education Akshay\'92s education: Master\'92s degree in Business Analytics from Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, completed in 2023. Courses included Data Analysis and Interpretation, Database Analysis and Design for Business, Aligning Information Systems and Business Strategies, Hadoop and MapReduce, and Data Mining for Business Analytics. Akshay also holds a Bachelor\'92s degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Pune University, Pune, India, completed in 2020. Courses included Applied ML for Data Science, Data Structures & Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming, Business Management, and Machine Learning.\
\
Professional Experience Akshay\'92s current job: Analytics Engineer at Holman (July 2023\'96Present). At Holman, Akshay developed a Power BI dashboard to improve fleet management visibility and reduce call center answering time by 30 seconds. He created Power BI Metrics for Client Relations, improving service quality by 12%. He collaborated with data scientists and stakeholders to align projects with goals. Akshay presented Power BI projects at IBIS 2024, earning positive feedback. He built an enterprise-scale semantic model for the Annual Business Review, replacing 15+ legacy reports and saving 30\'9640 hours per consultant. He used CI/CD pipelines and Git for collaborative development, wrote advanced SQL logic for KPI dashboards, and built ETL pipelines in Microsoft Fabric using Python to normalize 20 client KPIs. Akshay created a reusable, parameter-driven analysis framework, reducing turnaround time by 50%, and provided Power BI training.\
\
Akshay\'92s past role: Data Analyst Intern at Collabera (May 2023\'96July 2023). At Collabera, Akshay developed interactive Power BI dashboards to track KPIs, improving operational visibility. He optimized SQL queries and Power BI data modeling, reducing report generation time by 30%. He implemented a Dimensional Calendar in Power BI using DAX, improving reporting efficiency by 15%. Akshay collaborated with teams and provided end-user training.\
\
Akshay\'92s past role: Data Science Intern at Labware (June 2022\'96September 2023). At Labware, Akshay developed an ETL pipeline for crime data analysis using Python, AWS S3, and Snowflake. He engineered an XGBoost model to predict crime types with 80% accuracy. Akshay integrated machine learning insights into Tableau dashboards and extracted data from six sources, cleaning 400k rows in Python.\
\
Projects Akshay\'92s project: Automating Municipal Bond Ratings. Akshay automated municipal bond ratings using Python, Power BI, and PowerPoint. He created a Python script for automation, performed EDA, developed a dashboard, and summarized findings. This reduced rating time by 50%.\
\
Akshay\'92s project: Personal Website with AI Chatbot. Akshay built a portfolio site with an AI chatbot using React, Tailwind CSS, ChatGPT API, and GitHub Pages. The site showcases his qualifications and provides an interactive experience for recruiters.\
\
Skills Akshay\'92s technical skills: Power BI, SQL (PySQL, MSSQL, T-SQL, Oracle SQL), Python (Microsoft Fabric pipelines, automation), Microsoft Fabric, React, Tailwind CSS, AI tools (ChatGPT, Copilot). Akshay\'92s soft skills: Communication (translating technical to non-technical), problem-solving, Agile workflow management, consultative stakeholder engagement, requirements scoping, time estimation.\
\
Certifications Akshay\'92s certification: Associate Power BI Data Analyst.\
\
Awards and Achievements Akshay\'92s awards: IBIS 2024 Conference Presenter, Data Science Internship at Labware, Data Analyst Internship at Collabera, Analytics Engineer at Holman.\
\
Portfolio Links Akshay\'92s GitHub: https://github.com/idealidler?tab=repositories Akshay\'92s portfolio website: https://idealidler.github.io/my-portfolio}